in this video in a somewhat spontaneous
and light-hearted way I try to bring
together thoughts on a serious issue
that have appeared in other videos here
and there in passing over the last four
years to make a simple direct statement
about why it is I'm actually opposed to
civil disobedience an idea that's so
hallowed on the left and the right
across the political spectrum there's so
many romanticized quotes attached to it
I think many people would just be
shocked shocked to know that someone who
sincerely cares about politics about
getting organized and pursuing political
change would dare to question this this
hallowed tradition but you know one of
the disadvantages of doing a video like
this in such a spontaneous way is that
watching it back afterwards it occurred
to me I missed one of the most important
points that I have made repeatedly in my
criticisms of some of my contemporary
vegan leaders other vegan activists it's
a simple point but it's one that has I
think so much importance that I wanted
to stop now and add this at the start of
what is admittedly a longer video than
I'd intended it to be guys if you make
these excuses for illegal activities if
you make these excuses for civil
disobedience please try to imagine what
your life would be like if your worst
enemies took the same liberties and
engage in the same tactics if you think
it's okay for direct action everywhere
to climb over the barrier and interrupt
Bernie Sanders in the name of veganism
if you're gonna bring out these
quotations from Martin Luther King jr.
and Mahatma Gandhi and say oh well it's
in the name of challenging and unjust
law therefore breaking the laws is is is
justified guess what the neo-nazis would
see things exactly the same way from the
perspective of the vast majority of the
population the position that vegans are
self-righteously trying to pursue is
just as laughable just as irrational
just as extreme as what the neo-nazis
are trying to pursue okay I'm not just
saying this to
make you feel bad about being vegan I
mean the point is either you believe in
the pursuit of competing political ends
and the free market of ideas Democratic
contacts for debate and discourse or you
believe in civil disobedience for
everyone not just for the people who
happen to agree with your own
idiosyncratic sense of justice your own
idiosyncratic sense of what's right and
wrong your own idiosyncratic sense also
of priority because what other people
see as an emergency you may see as
business as usual what other people see
as a calamity threatening Western
civilization itself you may see us as no
big deal I think you all know and
whether you look at the far left or the
far right there are people who think
that business as usual at the banks is
is a crime against God there are Muslim
fundamentalists who are fundamentally
opposed to banking the charging of
interest usury they want to tear down
the banks there are neo-nazis who want
to kick out all the immigrants there are
all kinds of people who from their
perspective are acting in the pursuit of
something just and honorable and they'll
very gladly step over that line between
the legal definition no matter how
arbitrary of what's right and wrong if
you think it's okay for direct action
everywhere or for vegan extremists or
veep for vegan activists to kick down
the doors and break into laboratories
then you believe it's okay for Catholic
fundamentalists to do it at abortion
clinics if this is permissible for us
it's permissible for everyone so when
you make excuses for Wayans young
breaking into a laboratory and
destroying scientific experiments the
name of veganism will you extend this
same glorification of civil disobedience
to Catholics Muslims I don't know maybe
just Protestants who are anti-abortion
breaking into abortion clinics how about
hippies who are anti VAX breaking into
vachs
in clinics and destroying chemicals used
to inoculate people against diseases all
this stuff is out there and you can
google it and see just how sincere and
passionate those people are in their own
convictions just as we as vegans are
sincere and passionate ours ok sincerity
can't be the criterion here
passion can't be the criterion the fact
that something's an injustice the fact
that a given law from your perspective
is illegitimate therefore you think it's
okay to use illegal force to protest
against it okay no the ethic I promote
on this channel is one of doing the best
you can and I don't believe that the
best you can do is to engage in theft
vandalism Breaking and Entering
terrorism bombs I just don't believe
that sure if you look back over the
history of the whole world you can find
some scenario where the political
situation is so extreme that people have
no no choice but to resort to violence
in their own self-defense sure you can
find that but if you think that's the
situation today in Berkeley California
in the name of animal rights and
veganism then you're just as deluded as
the neo-nazis the anti-vaxxers and the
people who blow up abortion clinics if
you can't see that you're on the same
side they're on you really need to stop
and reconsider this romanticized notion
of civil disobedience
baddest yen civil disobedience is one of
the most hallowed and romanticized
concepts in the Western political
lexicon what does it really mean pissing
off the cops getting beaten up and go
into prison that's that's what it means
so it really does take it's quite a
challenge for the poets and creative
writers and filmmakers of our time to
come up with a way to romanticize is
this this approach to political activism
this is something I've discussed maybe
three years ago or more on this channel
it's come up in passing from time to
time but I can't remember recently
having a video that really stated what
my position on this was and you know
again I'm very happy to have a few
supporters like Mary Ann who had just
recorded a video with a record in the
video the context for this video now
being made was my fellow Canadian
aspiring vegan activist Mary Ann flew
away to attend a major animal rights
conference in Berkeley California came
back and I got his impressions of it and
in that video I didn't cross-examine him
too much I wasn't too harsh or too hard
on the notorious group direct action
everywhere who would turned out really
were the main organizers behind that
that conference um however in numerous
videos over the last four years in this
channel I have stated well my position
this is and occurs to be now especially
in the context of my having done a
relatively flattering video of talking
to someone else at hearing his
perspective on direct action everywhere
and their their use of illegal and
low-key violent activism and getting
themselves charged with crimes and going
to prison and their rhetoric surrounding
civil disobedience that I should come
out and make a short concise direct
video stating why it is not only I don't
preach civil disobedience I don't
practice civil disagreements I don't
encourage others to do it either look
guys the rhetoric surrounding civil
disobedience including what Marion's
sort of quoted to me from that
conference just now within the vegan
movement it sort of attempts to relocate
the question from you and what you're
doing and what difference you can make
to abstract ideological concepts
like the goodness of the law itself so I
noticed he used a you know kind of
hackneyed phrase and saying well if laws
are illegitimate
then using illegal force or illegal
tactics to challenge the law is
justified and so on you hear this kind
of rhetoric quite a bit but the question
we should be engaged in is actually not
the formal validity of the law it's
about you and me and what kind of lives
we want to live and what kind of
difference we can make and what is the
best way to go about doing it and it's
it's really quite dangerous I mean even
though it seems like a harmless way to
approach it just as you know if we're
talking about warfare we can't you know
shift the discussion to the instruments
being used to the bullets and the blades
we can't disassociate the questions from
human lives human motivations and and
and real human outcomes now I think the
most important thing to stress here is
that this approach if it pretends to
make judgments on the law it pretends to
pass judgments on the authorities it
pretends to pass judgments on the
morality of society at large but what it
really rests on are a series of
judgments about you and I about the
activists who are making these decisions
suppose we were to take the same kind of
examples we're using from the protection
everywhere from current vegan protest
movements and instead of the person
beneath the mask being an anonymous punk
from California which is often how these
protesters portray themselves the sort
of stereotype will a LF radical
left-wing Animal Liberation extremist
radical or ecological reticle what if
the man underneath the mask is a medical
doctor right away you might say oh what
a waste
why is he breaking and entering damaging
public property sabotaging a factory why
is he getting himself put in prison for
either stealing animals or say burning
down a farm or sabotaging a first or
something why isn't he using his
position of power and influence and
privilege and education as a medical
doctor why isn't he advocating Veen ism
10 different ways now what if the man
under the mask let's say it's a hunt
saboteur or a laboratory saboteur or
someone else who's
quote-unquote civil disobedience
breaking the law and Cohen show what if
they take off the mask and instead there
were nutritionists what if instead
they're an architect what if instead
they're just a talented and reasonably
successful musician maybe it's a
musician you know yeah I remember a
couple albums from that guy why would he
get himself put in prison like this why
would he do this rather than supporting
or advocating the vegan cause in in some
other way there is a judgment on the
people involved here and implicitly but
we don't want to examine is that you're
presuming to say these people are so
powerless
so voiceless so utterly without recourse
to making a constructive difference in a
democratic society that they have
nothing better they have no choice left
other than to throw themselves in the
train tracks throw themselves in prison
throw themselves at the police throw
themselves against the impassive edifice
of the society that doesn't care their
opinions to self-destructively you know
lay themselves nail in his sacrificial
lambs so the progress the moment now I
don't think that's good even if it were
true I mean when I take the mass off
these people and I meet them face to
face I think look you're you're not such
a scumbag you're not such a bad guy
you're not so terrible you have
something to offer whether you're a
musician or a cook or a janitor so I
have action met some janitors who are
quite intelligent resourceful people and
I've met some people with PhDs who were
complete msl's that's what you see as
you go through this life I mean you know
each of us in our way has the same kind
of responsibility as a medical doctor
and you may not realize it whether it's
that you're a parent or a policeman or
you know what whatever it is you take on
your life and even if you don't yet and
when you watch this video I don't care
if you're 15 years old you're 55 you can
take all those responsibilities you can
expand your scope of responsibilities
you can take on responsibilities more
important than efforts doctor you're
capable of more long-term especially if
you're building up and the impact of
this kind of civil disobedience when you
look at it over a 10-year period say and
I alluded to that briefly my manager
view with with Marian it's so negative
that it makes almost any of the other
options seem positive by contrast
including what I'm doing right now
coming on
coming on YouTube and trying to be a
kind of theory of the movement now if I
had made this same video years ago I'm
not gonna stress specify a specific
number of years I would have made the
following contrast and now I'm I'm not
gonna do it I'm gonna expose this I
would have said years ago look I know
what it's like to be involved in
politics in Laos Cambodia Thailand China
and and by reading about it to a lesser
extent other dictatorships around the
world political science is my field I've
also lived and worked in that
humanitarian work and you know what
there are some situations where you just
totally lack the options and
opportunities we take for granted in a
democratic society like Canada or like
California where you really just don't
have any choice other than to engage in
illegal acts of civil disobedience and
if you have to go to prison you know
maybe that's what that entails in
Cambodia where people now really have no
democracy they have they have no way to
change their country through elections
so maybe they have to look at other
options and you know what honestly I've
matured today I wouldn't say that at all
and I think there is actually a really
kind of creeping racism or
dehumanization of people on the other
side because when you know those people
face-to-face you know a sharp young man
in Cambodia and he may be an architect
and he may be a medical doctor and he
may be a janitor but you know someone
who's sharp and reads books and cares
about politics and if you just look at
two options a fork in the road like okay
you can throw yourself against this
brick wall you can throw yourself out
you so you can throw yourself on the
train tracks you can throw yourself at
the police you can do this useless self
sacrificial act of civil disobedience
and spend ten years in prison or you can
maybe cross the border into Thailand you
know maybe you're gonna migrate to
France or you know Vancouver Canada but
let's say you just go a couple miles
over the border in Thailand get yourself
a job on a farm I'm assuming a totally
minimum-wage job here
get yourself an internet connection and
spend your time writing articles and
recording YouTube videos talking about
politics in Cambodia and criticizing the
establishment and calling for a change
that's to come now
when you look at that fork in the road
you might think hey hey come on ISIL
that's not very effective as a form of
activism working on a farm
and being a blogger and YouTube
personality and writing articles may be
getting your articles published in the
newspaper from time to time that's not
terribly effective for a lone activist
but my point is compared to spending ten
years in prison in Cambodia it's
unbelievably effective and when you talk
about civil disobedience this is the
kind of comparison you have to make so
examining the legal democratically
permissible options you've got in Canada
in California
I see no excuse especially for the vegan
movement to be engaging in these these
illegal activities that I feel basically
undermine the legitimacy of our own
movement again I have a whole playlist
of videos but you can see exactly what
this is direct action everywhere as an
example they run onto a baseball field
and interrupt a baseball game in the
name of veganism guess what of course
you're accomplishing nothing they
interrupt the baseball game for five
minutes
security pounces on them they go to jail
great have a good time in jail getting a
lawyer and paying the fines and now I'm
not saying they're gonna do hard time
for that it's a pretty minor crime but
still nobody really wants that wants to
deal with that but guess what you're
also discrediting veganism you think
this makes me look good with this kind
of disruption they go into I mean I can
list off all these examples they go on
to Chipotle and break down weeping and
scream at the employees they go into a
butcher store and scream at the butcher
why don't you kill me instead of the pig
all this histrionic emotionally
overwrought nonsense
it's self-defeating on so many levels
even if they don't get put in prison but
now we've got Wayne song crying poor the
leader of direct action never asking for
your donations because he's facing ten
years some people say possibly 30 years
in prison for breaking and entering
theft destruction of property etc etc
because what he's been doing is illegal
he hasn't been doing in secrecy
he's been filming himself and posting
film of him breaking along the Internet
as veganism is number one Fame [ __ ] not
just trying to break the law but trying
to get famous and get donations doing it
that's that's the game they've been
playing okay so civil disobedience
there's a romanticized literature for
this in political science
number one offer author and it really is
Henry David Thoreau an American author
this meme was picked up in India by
Mohandas
and totally transformed everyone likes
to quote a book called non-violence and
peace in war by Gandhi almost nobody
reads it it doesn't say what you think
it says his version of non-violence is
it's war by other means it's actually
quite violence is violence it's quite
definitely Marie David Thoreau and there
were a few other big names in there
actually the Russian author Leo Tolstoy
he was a major major author in the
theory of non-violence and civil
disobedience from a very strange
religious perspective religious andean
style perspective was a he had different
periods of his life force positions
anyway out of these I mean these are you
know creative authors and intellectuals
you know they each highly eccentric
those three authors and they really
tried to romanticize this and to some
extent just as like a literary trope
that's still haunting contemporary
political discourse but from my part you
know when I talk to people about this
again and again in Canada I ask Oh have
you ever been to City Hall have you ever
given a deposition at City Hall have you
actually been to Parliament have you
ever spoken before the house of
parliament have you ever looked at what
it takes to get a bill put before
Parliament have you got what it takes to
get your opinion heard as an expert
witness and the consideration of a case
there are so many ways to have your
voice heard in a democratic system and
it's not the case that these people have
exhausted those possibilities before
resorting to violence before resorting
to street protests for one thing yes but
here we're not talking mystery buck
tortoise we're actually talking with
civil disobedience talking but
intentionally breaking the law with us
to burn something down break-in steal
something you know etc etc um they in
general I can't think of a single
exception they haven't tried those
things that haven't looked into them and
you know I think we all know why it's
because ultimately you know today the
source of romanticization is exactly
whatever gets donations whatever makes
money here on YouTube at the end of the
day you know sadly the Internet has
turned political activism into a
popularity contest as never before and I
see direct action everywhere DXE and the
current generation of people preaching
and practicing nonviolent violence what
else am I gonna call it you know
so-called civil
obedience I really do see you guys as
the bottom of the barrel hit me up a
bonus yell